---
layout: default
title: About
---

# About Me

I'm a software engineer living in Pittsburgh. I have a golden retriever named
Penny and I'm a big fan of coffee, board games, and TV.

Check out my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/alexander-sieman-86739a9a/)
profile for more on my experience and skills, or my
[Github](https://github.com/ars140) page for some things I've been working on
recently. Or take a look at [my
resume](assets/images/AlexanderSiemanResume.pdf).

## What I'm doing now

Currently, I'm a Project Software Engineer at [Philips
Respironics](https://www.usa.philips.com/healthcare/e/respironics) in
Pittsburgh. I joined Philips as a Senior Software Engineer in 2019. In this
role, I'm primarily focused on:

- Embedded firmware development and software architecture for medical devices
- Automated documentation and code generation
- Test automation framework development and adoption

## Previous work experience

After college, I joined GE Energy Connections full-time as part of the [Edison
Engineering Development
Program(EEDP)](https://jobs.gecareers.com/global/en/leadership-eedp-page). As
part of the EEDP, I completed four rotations throughout the business where I was
able to gain a breadth of experience. Most notably, this included developing
embedded firmware and controls software on a New Product Introduction (NPI) for
a medium-voltage induction motor drive product, as well as field service support
for product servicing and upgrades.

I offboarded from the EEDP in 2016 into an R&D role with with GE Power
Conversion in Cranberry Township, PA. Here, I focused on algorithm development
for a platform to predict faults in electric motors (this allowed me to be part
of several [patent submissions](projects/patents.html), as well as control and
automation upgrades to enable the repurposing of a 1MW solar inverter into an
active torsional damper system.

## Education

In 2014, I graduated from the University of Pittsburgh with a Bachelor of
Science in Electrical Engineering and a minor in Computer Science. As an
undergraduate, I had the opportunity to work as a [co-op engineering
student](https://admissions.pitt.edu/co-ops/) with GE Power Conversion in
Pittsburgh for three rotations.

While working in the EEDP program at GE, I pursued my master's degree through
the distance learning program at Georgia Tech. I graduated in 2017 with a Master
of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering, focused on Systems and
Controls.
