---
title: Personal Website, Version 1.0
layout: project
project: website-1
---

In August 2018, I decided to make a personal website using Python and Django.

## Why Build a Personal Website?

I wanted to build a personal website to learn more about web programming and
design, and to showcase some of my skills and recent projects.

## Why Use Django and Python?

Previously, I have used Wordpress for a personal blog, but wanted the
flexibility of a website designed from scratch in order to build custom themes
and add custom features as desired. I looked for a web framework that I could
use to handle the backend database portion of the site, and settled on Django, a
Python-based framework with detailed documentation and a large, active
community.

Django offered the ability to quickly generate (and iterate) the website
backend- I was able to get a working version of the website, with most of the
website's current features, created in just a few hours. So in just a few hours
(over a couple of weekends), I was able to get the basic functionality of the
site implemented, and get the site launched (currently hosted through Python
Anywhere). For the frontend, I used HTML and CSS to create a custom theme for
the site, rather than using a pre-baked template.

## What Resources Did You Use to Start Building This Site?

Here is a (non-exhaustive) list of helpful resources I used to help get up to
speed on Django, HTML, and CSS, and to help inspire the site's design and layout
(more to be added as more features are added to the site):

- [Django Software Foundation Website](https://www.djangoproject.com), which
provides detailed documentation for Django development
- [Mozilla's Django Web Framework
Tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django), a
great Django reference

Other helpful sites, such as Stack Overflow and w3schools.com, proved
indispensable in helping to get the website to look just right, since I had
limited previous experience with HTML and CSS. In future posts, I will expand
upon some specific packages and plugins I used for the website's backend.
